Cross updating with Microservices eBook v2.1.02 - Chapter 9 (#8504)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/microservices-architecture/secure-net-microservices-web-applications/authorization-net-microservices-web-applications.md

---
title: About authorization in .NET microservices and web applications

> description: Securing .NET Microservices and Web Applications | Get an overview of the main authorization options in ASP.NET Core applications - role-based and policy-based.

Reviewer: Securing => Secure

Author: Thinking on SEO, changed all titles on this chapter to this pattern "Security in .NET Microservices and Web Applications - {page description}"

By default, adding an Authorize attribute without parameters will limit access to authenticated users for that controller or action. To further restrict an API to be available for only specific users, the attribute can be expanded to specify required roles or policies that users must satisfy.

## Implement role-based authorization

> ASP.NET Core Identity has a built-in concept of roles. In addition to users, ASP.NET Core Identity stores information about different roles used by the application and keeps track of which users are assigned to which roles. These assignments can be changed programmatically with the RoleManager type (which updates roles in persisted storage) and UserManager type (which can assign or unassigned users from roles).

Reviewer: I think "unassigned" was correct.

Author: You're right, but spell checker marked it as a typo, so I rephrased it to "grant or revoke roles from users", that seems better (IMHO).

In this example, to call API1, a user must:

- Be in the Administrator *or* PowerUser role, *and*

- Be in the RemoteEmployee role, *and*

- Satisfy a custom handler for CustomPolicy authorization.

## Implement policy-based authorization

> Custom authorization rules can also be written using [authorization policies](https://docs.asp.net/en/latest/security/authorization/policies.html). In this section, we provide an overview. More detail is available in the online [ASP.NET Authorization Workshop](https://github.com/blowdart/AspNetAuthorizationWorkshop).

Reviewer: The additional comma wasn't necessary.

Reviewer 2: Link here should be updated to /aspnet/core/security/authorization/policies

In this section, we provide an overview. -> This section provides an overview.

More detail is available in the online [ASP.NET Authorization Workshop] (https://github.com/blowdart/AspNetAuthorizationWorkshop). -> For more information, see [ASP.NET Authorization Workshop] (https://github.com/blowdart/AspNetAuthorizationWorkshop).

Author: Fixed.

});
```

As shown in the example, policies can be associated with different types of requirements. After the policies are registered, they can be applied to an action or controller by passing the policy’s name as the Policy argument of the Authorize attribute (for example, `[Authorize(Policy="EmployeesOnly")]`) Policies can have multiple requirements, not just one (as shown in these examples).

In the previous example, the first AddPolicy call is just an alternative way of authorizing by role. If `[Authorize(Policy="AdministratorsOnly")]` is applied to an API, only users in the Administrator role will be able to access it.

> The second <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationOptions.AddPolicy> call demonstrates an easy way to require that a particular claim should be present for the user. The <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationPolicyBuilder.RequireClaim> method also optionally takes expected values for the claim. If values are specified, the requirement is met only if the user has both a claim of the correct type and one of the specified values. If you're using the JWT bearer authentication middleware, all JWT properties will be available as user claims.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationOptions.AddPolicy%2A> call demonstrates an easy way to require that a particular claim should be present for the user. The <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationPolicyBuilder.RequireClaim%2A> method also optionally takes expected values for the claim. If values are specified, the requirement is met only if the user has both a claim of the correct type and one of the specified values. If you're using the JWT bearer authentication middleware, all JWT properties will be available as user claims.
```

The most interesting policy shown here is in the third `AddPolicy` method, because it uses a custom authorization requirement. By using custom authorization requirements, you can have a great deal of control over how authorization is performed. For this to work, you must implement these types:

- A Requirements type that derives from <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.IAuthorizationRequirement> and that contains fields specifying the details of the requirement. In the example, this is an age field for the sample `MinimumAgeRequirement` type.

> - A handler that implements <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationHandler-1>, where T is the type of <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.IAuthorizationRequirement> that the handler can satisfy. The handler must implement the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationHandler-1.HandleRequirementAsync> method, which checks whether a specified context that contains information about the user satisfies the requirement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A handler that implements <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationHandler%601>, where T is the type of <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.IAuthorizationRequirement> that the handler can satisfy. The handler must implement the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authorization.AuthorizationHandler%601.HandleRequirementAsync%2A> method, which checks whether a specified context that contains information about the user satisfies the requirement.
```

});
```

As shown in the example, policies can be associated with different types of requirements. After the policies are registered, they can be applied to an action or controller by passing the policy’s name as the Policy argument of the Authorize attribute (for example, `[Authorize(Policy="EmployeesOnly")]`) Policies can have multiple requirements, not just one (as shown in these examples).

In the previous example, the first AddPolicy call is just an alternative way of authorizing by role. If `[Authorize(Policy="AdministratorsOnly")]` is applied to an API, only users in the Administrator role will be able to access it.

> The second `AddPolicy` call demonstrates an easy way to require that a particular claim should be present for the user. The `RequireClaim` method also optionally takes expected values for the claim. If values are specified, the requirement is met only if the user has both a claim of the correct type and one of the specified values. If you are using the JWT bearer authentication middleware, all JWT properties will be available as user claims.

Reviewer: These could (or should) be xrefs to provide links to the APIs:

`AddPolicy`
`RequireClaim`

Author: Done.

Is there a guideline to use xref?

The most interesting policy shown here is in the third `AddPolicy` method, because it uses a custom authorization requirement. By using custom authorization requirements, you can have a great deal of control over how authorization is performed. For this to work, you must implement these types:

> - A Requirements type that derives from `IAuthorizationRequirement` and that contains fields specifying the details of the requirement. In the example, this is an age field for the sample `MinimumAgeRequirement` type.

Reviewer: Also xref for `IAuthorizationRequirement`

Author: Done.

> - A handler that implements `AuthorizationHandler<T>`, where T is the type of `IAuthorizationRequirement` that the handler can satisfy. The handler must implement the `HandleRequirementAsync` method, which checks whether a specified context that contains information about the user satisfies the requirement.

Reviewer: Again, xrefs for .NET APIs: `AuthorizationHandler<T>` `IAuthorizationRequirement` and `HandleRequirementAsync`. The `T` in "where T is the type..." should be code-fenced.

Author: Added the xrefs, but I think the "where T" is part of the explanation, not the syntax.

Fixed it but I'm not sure about xrefing generics, are the updated references ok?

Author: I found out I had to use the fully qualified class name as it shows in the url in the API browser 😊
